---
layout: default
title: Born to Die and Video Games from Lana Del Rey
---

### _Born to Die_ and _Video Games_ from Lana Del Rey  

**Listen to these at full blast with headphones on only, glancing over my should every twenty seconds to make sure no one knows.**

Decades from now, when I'll either be pushing a shopping cart full of batteries through the Rust Belt or stuffing hundos from my 401(K) into the fire because they're the warmest, I'll hear LDR again and ask the same questions. Who is this? How many cigarettes has she smoked to earn that voice? Has every girlfriend been that bored with me long before the end?

_Born To Die_ starts with thirteen seconds of strings followed by metallic rhythm and breathless whispers from LDR and shouts from some bro walking by the studio. Everything but the percussion and her voice is superfluous, though necessary to justify the studio time and a good cue that this is some sad shit for the montages in the last ninety seconds of every TV drama. She's obviously bored, but not so bored that she couldn't imagine a way to be not bored ('Let's go get high', the most sultry, inviting offer you've received in some time, up with her on the roof looking down on the people who never look up).

The punch line to the chorus makes no sense. 'Cause you and I, we were born to die.' It's both false and a tautology. The pause in the strings and the öttotuned robots chanting 'we were born to die' makes you think she's about to lay some hard truth on you. I laugh every time I hear it (then loop it again). The lyrics are just a vehicle for LDR's voice, to underline her nihilism. I put them into Google Translate hoping that they'd come out in a language that has all the same syllables as English but without meaning and then it would sing the lullabye to me in her voice, but all I got was Leonard Nimoy reading the Bible backwards. 'Choose your last words, this is the last time.' A full thirty three seconds elapse between her last words and the end of the song, long enough for the fuse on her truth IED to burn down and blow up our armored Prius. The bro distracts us, yelling 'all right' and 'louder', though those may in fact be the same words. He could also be saying 'chowder.'

_Video Games_ takes even longer to get going, twenty seconds of strings and piano. The piano can stay. The first minute flirts with awfulness, that same pedantry on country radio that squeezes emotion out of people tripping on the sidewalk or dropping your kid off at college. We set the scene, her dude's coming by, just wants to play video games. The pile of hearts starts at 0:55:

> it's you  
> it's you  
> it's all for you  
> everything i do  
> tell you all the time  
> heaven is a place on earth  
> wid you  
> tell me all the things you want to do  
> i heard that you like the bad girls honey  
> is that true?  
> it's better than i ever even knew  
> they say that the world was built for two  
> only worth living if somebody  
> is loving you  
> baby now you do  

What kills you is the flatness and monotony of her singing. There's no inflection until the rise in 'bad girls, honey' and the question 'is that true?' but right down again for 'it's better than I ever even knew.' We've heard these lyrics before, in the background, there's a gap in our nervous system for them, the you/do/true/two, worthless as nickels, but never so deliberately and ambitiously bored. If LDR sounds bitter for a moment she'll lose half her audience, every dude at the bar will take it personally, drop her to the floor.

The whole raison d'etre is to light the place on fire without anyone seeing the match. _Video Games_ comes the closest of the singles we'll be hearing on repeat until the singularity.